H transformer sound effects today, finally. I know this took a moment uh because there's like a lot to talk about. I'm trying to keep it as concise as possible. So, you might have seen my video where I remade the sounds for the Devastator transformation scene. This is what the project file looks like and 99% of it is samples, but it's samples that I made prior to this. And I just made samples in all these different categories and then sort of went and just used this pack that I made to arrange the samples in here to follow the things that happen in the scene. But I want to show you how to make all these sounds. But before we start, I want to show you some comparisons because the original has good sounds, but there are some moments where I thought it could be a little more intense. For example, here where the tendrils come out and go into the cement mixer. This is the original sound. And then this is my remake. And then also in the original there are some moments where for example here you hear this chain rattling in the background. And it kind of keeps going even though the camera cuts to a different angle. It just like keeps playing at the same volume where I always feel like if the c like I mean obviously this is a movie, the sounds are not real. The robot is not real. So you can be creative with how you do the sound stuff. Obviously, I've also seen a lot of comments that were talking about how it is like very dry and close up, whereas a more realistic approach would probably sound a little more reverbed out, a little more like mixed into and making it sound a little more natural as if it's like in a real environment where things might not sound as crisp and clean up to your ear. But then at the same time, you just want to have as much impact on the viewer when they see the scene. So, you want the sounds to just be in your face. And I tried to do a more realistic approach at first and it just lacked the punch that the really dry intense robot sounds have. So, for example, with the chain rattle scene, this was the original and then this was mine. There's a little bit of synthesis in here where I've made some risers like on the spot in Faceeland for example like that little guy and then this constant background riser cuz the original had a similar thing that just constantly keeps the tension going throughout the whole thing really like that. If you want to watch the whole thing that is on a different video but the point of today's video is that I want to show you how to make these. So let's get into that. So the slightly easier stuff is things with a lot of randomization. I'd use granular synths for this. Something like I think most of the time I used face plant and I would just import like a glitchy sample u maybe something with bases that I've made something that I've already processed through some other granular stuff. I'll just show you. It's like multiple iterations of granularizing all kinds of weird things. I'll show you an example with a bass step like a weird oneshot like this. We could import that into a granular synth. Cool. That's a new tear out bass, I guess. And then we kind of want this to just give us absolute chaos by modulating everything with random modulators. So, I'm going just spawn a random LFO down here and turn the jitter and the smooth up. And I'll link the speed to a macro so we have some control over this. And then we might need this later. I'll right click this little arrow and say voice mode independent. I will explain in a bit. So now we've got all these random things here first of all like the position. That's cool. The timing, the pitch, the level randomization, the panning randomization, if it should reverse it or not. Um the grain size, very important for glitchy stuff, and the grain density, how many grains are playing at the same time. And I'm just going to go ahead and start uh putting this on like all of these and just see what happens. I might leave this at 50%. And then for the next one, I'm just going to duplicate this so all the settings stay the same like the thing I did here with the independent voice mode. And also the link to that macro for the speed is still attached. So that saves us some work. Put this on the timing. I might leave the pitch alone. Level all the way. Pan all the way. Grain length. Let's go from like shortest to maybe 250. Density somewhere between 0.5 and 10. 10 might be a little crazy. We can also move the starting position of the sample around. Have you go up to halfway through and then we can also modulate the grain envelope. This is basically just a volume envelope at the start and end of each of the little grains that are going to be played. And you can have this modulated as well. There's like a couple different things like the attack slope, decay slope, maybe the fade in, like the attack length. We don't want to get too extremely long. Okay, neat. We have some chaos going on. I actually took the grain size all the way down to zero and then I'm just modulating it between zero and five cuz sometimes it was getting a little too fast. Now we make one more and uh maybe we can put this on the semmit tones so that we also have some random pitch up and down. Now we kind of have a nice chaotic grain maker and we can import all kinds of different samples into it and see how they do. You can also add some other effects after this and of course add more random modulation to those effects like for example a com filter would be cool. Let's try that. This is just my personal com filter that I've made where it's a bunch of com filters in a row that you can just all turn up one after the other with macros. And then this is just the frequency and this switches between plus and minus. So you kind of get the idea. So let's also randomly modulate you maybe with a bipolar one on the amount. So it has a 50% chance of being off and a 50% chance of being on somewhere within this range. And then maybe another one that does a little bit for the frequency. Oh, and we ran out of space for this macro. So um instead what we can do is we can have this macro with its last slot actually move this macro and now this macro can take care of the speed of these LFOs for us. Some good chaos. Do I have some weird effect sounds that might be cool for this? Let's just try that for fun. That does sound transformer. It's a little fast and fluttery. So, we could try and play with the grain length. Maybe it shouldn't be as short at any given moment. There we go. That sounds a little more controlled. Actually, these kind of tear out one shots kind of work well. I just got to make sure this position slider doesn't like go into the silence area all the time. But we're missing some impact and fatness. So that's where possibly a fat rack would come in. And maybe a transient shaper, something like stab. I'm going to put one before this. And then maybe uh this is already pretty intense. I don't want to put another one after this. Uh maybe we can put a limiter after this so it's a little more controlled. M. This doll is not intense enough for me. I'm going to add a multiband compression in here. And then I'm going to add another one here. And another one after nice. That's a little bit better. Good chaotic sounds. If it gets too compressed sounding and it's like too much the same volume all the time and you want some more dynamics, just maybe add in another stab or another transient chamber. And then also on my Patreon, um, you can find in the VR Ableton racks 2025, there are some of these chaos racks, which are basically just taking Ableton stock effects and then modulating their parameters with random LFOs, similar to what I just did in Faceeland, but just with Ableton stuff. So those can also add more glitchy goodness to the whole chain. One of my favorites is the chaos vocoder because vocoder is going to add some bubbliness to us which kind of also sounds like if the sounds kind of metallic it adds this liquidness to it. So it kind of sounds like metal that's morphing and shape-shifting. So I think that's a perfect flavor for transformer sounds. Now we're getting into real transformer territory. And again we could just go back and now try this with some other samples again. I wonder what if we put a vocal in here like >> we don't give a why not >> that works too apparently. >> And if we have some foley like textures and stuff like that like you can just record yourself crinkling some paper or making noises with a Red Bull can or something like that. Yeah, this is me crumpling some paper up close. Let's put that in here. Let's maybe reduce the grain density a bit. Oh, the stab is making it very punchy. But yeah, this way you can kind of make some very textural ASMR top layers that you might need if you have something metallic around the house. Any like door knobs, um pots and pans, little little things that make clicky noises. Right now here I have some soda cans. Then these can turn into really nice mechanical noises for like uh little parts snapping into each other or bigger parts connecting if you pitch them down. For this you might need some transient shaping. Again, if I increase the grain length again a little bit, we get a little less fast fluttery chaos and a little more like longer coherent phrases. I would say what I don't like right now is the pitch is changing all the time and I do want a little more of a coherent sound cuz for for this kind of mechanical stuff, if the pitch keeps going up and down, it's a little chaotic. doesn't sound really doesn't really sound like something mechanical, something something realistic. So, if I'm in phase blend, you could do this in Serum as well. I might take this is the chaos LFO that is linked to the pitch. I might put that into a remap. And then in here, I'll edit the curve to be sort of staying in the middle 50% of the time. Maybe this can be adjusted, of course. And then now that goes back to the pitch. So now that's staying at the pitch that I've chosen and only 50% of the time goes a little bit up or a little bit down. Just for fun, I want to turn the vocoder back on. Nice. So, and then while I'm doing this, I'm always recording the output on another track that's set to resampling as the input so that I end up with like a huge long file of audio. And then I'll go through and pick out the best moments. Let me actually show you some of the project files. Like these are all the project files that were sort of created while making the pack of transformer sounds. And for example, let's look into house and mechanics. So initially up here, this was one long recording that was 20 minutes of chaos where I was messing with the plugin. It might have been faceplant. It might have been um GRM tools at which I can also show you. Andrew Hong made a video about that as well. It's kind of a similar thing in terms of its granular capabilities. So I would just go through this really long file. So these are like looping grains or looping. It's like a sample looping and it's pitching it up and down. And then every once in a while a com filter comes in and made a sound like that. And then I'd be like, "Okay, I like that. I kind of want to keep that. That was like another cool one. Here we have some like mechanic clicking. I'll show you that plugin as well cuz it's a it's a little more intense. But I just wanted to show you my workflow with this first and then on the track with the ones that I've picked. There's a little more processing. Like I have a Fab Filter Pro Q just to dehar uh things and take out some very intense resonances that sometimes come up. Uh there's a stab for more punchiness. There's a little EQ. The whole thing was a little too stereo wide, so I reduced the stereo width a little bit. And then there's a limiter for safety. This was a happy accident with a com filter, for example. Another good one. This is a phase plan preset I made uh some time ago, which does the same thing. You see all these random modulations down here. You have some controls over here. There's a little more detail. You can like turn off the pitch modulation. There's some extra effects that you can turn on or off. You can adjust uh like a randomization of the speed of the randomization up here, multiple levels uh and adjust like the max density and max length of the grains. And then this is just for you to grab samples, throw in here, hold a key, record the output for a couple minutes, and find some gold. The scan width is kind of important because if this is all the way up, it's going to scan all the way till the end of the sample where there's a lot of silence. And maybe I don't want that. So, I'm going to keep it at half for this kind of sample. And this is just like a percussion hit. Maybe something from heavy bass design volume 3. What if we take one of these? Let's throw that in here. Obviously, the key that you play is also going to change the main pitch of the sample. So, you can play around with that as well. This one could have the scan width all the way up. I'm going to change the max density and then max length for more like really intense grainy stuff without the effects. Let's try just a zap. Damn. Sometimes the simplest sounds are actually kind of the best input for these kind of generators. And I told you earlier to when you create these random LFOs to set this voice mode to independent. That's because if you now have this all set up, you could set the global unison to two voices with the spread all the way up. And then you basically have one note playing on the left channel and one on the right and they're both getting completely different randomized values for all this stuff. which is pretty NEAT just for absolute stereo chaos if you want that. I've made another one of these that just uses a normal sampler. I think I showed this one in my face plan sound design video. Works the same way. There's no effects on this, but you could go ham on that. If you want to play around with these phase plan presets and put your own samples in there and create some glitchy madness, I'll put the presets on my Patreon. The link's going to be in the description. Another tool I used in a similar way is GRM Tools Atilier. This is sort of a similar thing. We have a sample playback we can modify. We have some um waveform generation, com filters, band pass filters uh or just filters in general, some kind of pitch shifting, time stretching, delay things uh um and some gain control and visualizer. The nice thing here is kind of similar to phase plant, we can have random modulators down here like this thing. And whatever we attach this to, like if we attach this to multiple things, they're all going to get a different random curve. So you can very quickly create very chaotic sounds. So, we've got the clanking soda cans here. And then I can attach this, for example, to the pitch or the starting position. And if I click again, it's going to create another playhead. And now they're going to be left right split. And for that second playhead, we can also modify the start position and the pitch. And let's go. And then we could run that into maybe uh the time device. And then in there we can also modulate things. So let's attach this to the delay time. We can control lengths and stuff here. Same for the other one. And that's all going to be really random. And then maybe one on the feedback. That's going to be a little bit dangerous. Maybe one on the mix. Maybe one on the spread. And oh, band pass. Do that one, too. Let's see what that does. So, you can kind of tell this goes into the same direction. So, here's an example of something that I built with it. There's just one modulator down here, but we've got com filters, we got the time thing, we got the pitch thing, and I put the soda cans into it again. I should probably put a limiter at the end. And then we can do some similar processing again where maybe we put a fat rack on there to uh make everything a little louder. That should already kind of be enough to give us some cool stuff. Just for fun, let's try another bass hit. Let's just try one of these short ones. See what happens. That is pretty intense. I also had four playheads playing at the same time. If we just turn one on, it's going to be a little little less intense. Yeah. And then it's the same process with this as well, where you just record the output the entire time and take out your favorite. Even a snare or a kick drum could work really well. Let's try a kick. Maybe something as simple as that. Let's see what happens. Damn. I think some of the screams also come from the delay times being really short and then the feedback being modulated up. So, it's a bit noisy. It could probably profit from a transient shaper. Nice. That sounds more fun. Some of these sound hilarious. Oh yeah, and we can obviously also change the speed of all this random modulation to really slow or really fast. And I feel like if it's set to super fast, it's more like a really quick chaotic transformation stuff, which might also work better with stuff that has a little more low end. So, just for fun, I'm going to try one more uh bass stab. That one could be interesting. Yay! Complete chaos. the slow movements are really fun. Actually, I could listen to this for so long. I'm so sorry. So, yeah, a lot of good stuff in there. For these pneumatic samples that kind of sound like air, I'd actually just take crash samples and put them into serum spectral oscillator and then uh slow down the scan rate, add a highp pass and some noise, and then I'd like move up the D-tune or some other warp mode here in spectral. And then that was basically it. And then just making variations of that and playing around with the different settings. Maybe add some reverb or something. The lasers were mostly handbuilt where I would just also just do that in Serum or some other synth and you just start with an envelope on the pitch and it just goes down from really high to really low and then you go from there. start adding D-Tune effects, other waveforms, distortion, processing. You can just go crazy. You could even build your own laser randomizer if you wanted to, like just attach different things to macros, maybe like the length of the envelope, the D-tune, the wavet position, the effects choice, com filters, and their resonance and their cutff. So, you can really play around with that and make some interesting variations of lasers very quickly. The flybys were done in a similar fashion as the symbols. Some of these were happy accidents from the granular sessions, but a lot of these are either tonal elements or noisy elements like symbols, crashes, but also all kinds of other stuff put into spectral oscillator and then just automating the volume to go like up and down kind of with a curve like this like kind of like that. and then at the same time taking the pitch and going down with the pitch as soon as we've reached the peak. That kind of works with almost everything. Like I think we can even do that with a snare. I'll just freeze it. Oh, we still have the laser automation. And just going to freeze it like here at this point. Nice. And then let's put you on the volume. Cool. And then we just need another one on the pitch. Oh, you got to be the same speed. Pretty much that. And then again, trying out all kinds of different samples, playing with the spectral modes, playing with effects. Maybe I want a little more volume on the way out. Maybe this also needs a little bit of a That sounds realistic now. Sweet. Let's try this out with a couple different samples. That's a cool driveby. Obviously, we can change the length of this by lengthening our LFOs, but that's a quick way to get to those types of sounds. Some of these aliens were happy accidents with uh Native Instruments Reactor Scravel, which I also want to show you really quick, but it is quite a weird plugin. If you have Native Instruments Reactor, because maybe even if you have Reactor 5, it's in there too, because maybe in the past you have bought a Native Instruments complete package or something and Reactor was in there, then you do have Scravel as well because it is part of the old reactor factory library. You find it under factory library sound generators screvel. This thing is loud and will immediately scream at you. So turn your volume down. So this so this just makes noise. You cannot control it with MIDI as far as I know. As I can best explain it as there are eight oscillators that FM and AM and do all kinds of funky stuff. There are eight filters, eight delay circuits with feedback and they all interplay in weird ways that are impossible to predict. And then there are three different ways how these are I guess routed with each other or something. And you have these four macros down here. The main thing though is you just turn it on and oh god and you hit randomize all channels which randomizes all these things and you get some chaos and it also looks really cool with this animation. And then I would recommend again putting some kind of processing on it. Maybe just an OTT or a fat rack and definitely a limiter because this thing will sometimes just blow up in your face with very harsh frequencies. If you play around with this a little bit, you can definitely make some sudden death type ambiences. If you can control the chaos, help. Can we control your screechiness? Maybe with the feedback here. Yep. Yep. That's what's doing it. I bring that down. Out of these three modes, the subtotal one is a little more chill. Oh, that's cool. So, I can definitely see the use of this for cinematic stuff or horror movies. There's no reverb on this, by the way. It just sounds like that right now. Oh, that's kind of a cool atmo. I'm scared it's going to explode as soon as I touch anything. Labbotomy sounds. The visual looks sick though. I guess it can make Pac-Man on crack sounds too. What was that? Do it. Do it. Why am I so entertained by this? I have spent many nights just with this plugin until my brain was completely melted. But actually the intro pad to dust rhythm is made with this plugin. So it can make cool stuff. Can I make it more goofy? But yeah, this can make a good noise generator to then put through those uh chaos random like effect racks again. Like let's just for fun try uh chaos grain delay um the chaos neuro filter midside split and the chaos voder. And if you change some of these sometimes in between them some volume gets lost. So I just put like a multiband compression between each of these sometimes. And let's see what happens. Yep, that is kind of what I expected. Let's add some buzz from the fat rack for bonus crunch. And then that's sort of how a lot of the samples from the uh crunch category came to be. AGAIN, some stab for transient shaping to make him a little more impactful. Some EQing. Maybe take out some mud, add a little more sub for more impact. Good. Basically this workflow. You also got to be careful with these long effects chains. I mean, they're kind of like becoming the instrument at some point where if you have tons of these glitchy effects in a row, like a grain delay and a pitch shifter and a frequency shifter and some random filters and a vocoder, at some point it's just always going to sound like that, no matter what you put into it. What you put into it might only have a very small impact on the final sound. That's not a bad thing. You just need to be aware of it in these sessions because you might get frustrated because you change your input sound and nothing happens because it's just all sounding like the effects chain. That's where you need to go and edit and remove things or add things. These computery glitchy sounds over here are actually pretty easy to make if you've already created some longer chaotic samples from the granular sessions. So, I'm just going to take something from the transform folder long, which is from those granular sessions just like a lot of chaotic stuff happening. And then if we take one of those and use Ableton's beats warp mode on transients and either on the back and forth loop or the forward loop mode and just stretch this by times two, then we already between each of these detected transients get some kind of automatic looping which sounds very glitchy. Sometimes Ableton might not detect enough transients and we can just double click up here to add our own warp markers which count as detected transients sort of for this warp mode. So right now this sounds like this. And if I add in a few more of these points here, we might get a few more faster loops. Nice. Let's try this with a different sample. And then on forward loop, we could also not just stretch it by times two, but also pitch it up a little bit. That way, the looping effect gets even more intense cuz it's looping it faster. I'm a little bit reminded of the Windows pinball sound effects. And if you want to go the extra mile, you can also split up a sample into left and right and then stretch them separately because these transients that are detected are obviously just for both channels together. So these loops are always going to happen to left and right at the same time. But in this sample here, there's stuff happening on the left channel here and on the right channel here that's not happening on the left. So if we split this up into left and right, the transient detection might be different for each of them. So we just put a utility on this and duplicate it. And then on one of them we select left. On the other we select right. Then we bounce these tracks in place. Let's pan this track to the left. Pan this track to the right. Yep. Sounds correct. And then let's stretch it again on beats mode times two. And I'll give it plus six so that it's a little more intense. Same here. Beats mode forward * 2 + 6. And now this might sound a little more interesting cuz now sometimes the loops are different for the left and for the right channel. We could increase that effect if we remove some detected transients and maybe add some new ones in one of the two samples. That creates even more chaotic stereo width, which can be cool sometimes. And if you pitch this even higher, it just becomes more and more computery sounding. You could even automate the pitch. Actually, I haven't tried that before. This might be interesting if this just goes like up, down. Ah, that doesn't work. That's sad. I guess you could do it by hand and then record on another track on resampling. We got this one here. And then if I start in case you want to do that. So yeah, this is how 99% of the sounds from that pack were made. A lot of times I would just do that granular madness and make a really long file and then I'd sort of sort them into different categories. That's sort of where the sweeps category, the metal, the the howls kind of come from or the impacts or maybe even some of the lasers because sometimes that granular chaos would just create a sound that kind of sounded like a laser. So I take that out and just export that into the laser folder. And then a minute later it made a really cool transformation sound that was kind of short. So that goes into the transformation short folder. And then later I did a little impact sound. So that goes into the impact folder. So it might even be that in one session you make a bunch of sounds that go into different categories. At least that's how my workflow with this kind of stuff works. I think we can finish this off by making a cool laser from scratch in Serum. And then I'll put that preset on Patreon as well. So, let's see. Let's start with an LFO on the coarse pitch at maximum range. And I'm using an LFO instead of an envelope because I want to have a little more control over the shape because maybe I want to start with like a really strong downward zap and then around here I want it to be like a little more actually. Let's adjust the volume envelope. And maybe I'm just going to use the built-in filter in the warp modes to kind of make it a little more plucky. I might layer this with a sine wave that is just going to get an envelope on the pitch just for like the initial impact zap. I need you to start a little bit higher. Also need this one to start a little bit higher. Okay, cool. That's a little bit better. Now, let's turn up the unison on the saw wave and turn down the random face. That's a lot more interesting. Maybe we can add a comp filter for even more kind of flangy lasery stuff on top of this. This could also move with an LFO that I'm just going to set to envelope. A lot of the time I just use these as envelopes. Going into a cool direction. Let's use the panning here to make it a little more wide. Let's add some effects. uh distortion compression. Let's have the distortion start high and then go down. First compressor was a bit too much. Maybe we could also add uh under filter the diffuser, which is kind of a disperser. I'mma play a higher pitch. It's an octave up. That's another octave up. Those are all kind of cool. I kind of like that one. That sounds That sounds kind of nice and futuristic. Maybe we could add some hyper just a little bit. And then maybe just for fun, could we play with a tonal delay? Like turn this to normal, not link to any BPM. Make you really fast. Something like that. And maybe that comes in right after the start so it doesn't mess with our initial zap transient. Like that. What if we also modulated the delay time? That's kind of cool. I kind of like that on ping pong. I think that's even cooler. It's a very wet laser. Modulating in the other direction is going to give us more of a downwards. It can add a little bit of texture to the whole thing. I kind of really like this even though I know it's very long. Actually slowing down the delay time gave a really cool effect. It's kind of like a cool trail to it. Now I wonder if we could do something fun with the boat effect on this. Oh yeah, the blur definitely that sounds more like a ricochet from a laser. But a little bit of this mixed in kind of gives it a cool like wetness and diffusion sort of. Nice. And now we've made a somewhat high quality laser sound in Serum with some fun effects on it. Obviously, you can do a ton of different stuff. There's so many cool filters. You could do it with a you could do something with a phaser. You could try the reverb filter. That's going to like create some interesting smear. Obviously, all kinds of different waveforms. Uh, the D-Tune here is also doing a lot. So, that's really changing the sound. That's cool, too. The pitch of the com filter, how much is being modulated upwards would also work. That's kind of cool. I'm going to save that. I'm going save the other one, too, for you. Sweet. We've made some transformer sounds. I hope this was helpful and informative. And if you want the presets from today, you can find them on my Patreon, the link below. And there you can also find the sample pack that I used to recreate the transformer sequence and that I've been referencing in today's video. So have fun with the presets and everybody have a good day and make some transformer noises. And let me know if you also decide to make a remake of this kind of stuff like a scene from a movie where you make some spaceship sounds or transformer noises. Just like send me a DM on Instagram or drop me a comment on my Patreon on the post because I'd love to check it out. All right. Bye-bye.