28.32.6 Output
Reverb’s Output Section.
At the reverb output, you can vary the amplitude of reflections and diffusion with the Reflect and
Diffuse controls and adjust the effect’s overall Dry/Wet mix.
28.33 Roar
The Roar Effect.
Roar is a saturation and coloration device with up to three processing stages and a range of flexible
routing configurations. Its selection of non-linear shaper curves and filters can be combined to
produce a wide variety of saturation types, from targeted warmth to sweeping harmonic motion or
glitchy blasts of noise. Roar’s feedback controls and built-in compressor add a further layer of
distinctive possibility to the device, which can produce sounds unlike any other instrument or effect
currently available in Live.
622
28.33. 1 Input Section
Roar’s Input Section.
The Drive knob sets the level of the signal being input into Roar before the gain stages. It can be used
to quickly add or remove distortion without having to adjust individual Shaper Amount controls across
multiple gain stages, for example, or to modify an input signal to ensure a preset behaves as
expected.
The Tone Amount knob changes the input signal’s balance of high and low frequencies. When set to
positive values, high frequencies are boosted and low frequencies are attenuated. When set to
negative values, low frequencies are boosted and high frequencies are attenuated.
The Tone Frequency slider sets the frequency of the low shelving filter used by the Tone Amount
control.
Adjusting Roar’s Tone parameters has noticeable effects on the timbre of its gain stages, as these
follow the Input section in Roar’s processing chain. Dialing in positive values with the Tone Amount
knob can help attenuate low-frequency content in guitars or basses, for example, to avoid muddy
sounds when using large amounts of distortion.
The Color Compensation toggle next to the Tone Amount control applies a mirrored version of the
Tone filter to the output of Roar’s distortion stages. When active, Tone values are attenuated before the
shaper and boosted after it, giving you more control over the gain stage processing. Activating the
Color Compensation toggle with negative Tone values is a helpful trick for saturating drums without
affecting low end frequency impact, for example.
The Routing Mode panel lets you choose from seven routing types: Single, Serial, Parallel, Multi Band,
Mid Side, Feedback, and Delay. Apart from Single and Multi Band, each routing mode comes with
the Blend control that you can use to control the blend between its two gain stages.
The Serial routing mode processes the input signal using two concatenated shapers. The Blend control
blends between the sound of Stage 1 and the sound of Stages 1 and 2 combined.
The Parallel mode processes the input signal using two independent shapers. The Blend control blends
between the sound of Stage 1 and the sound of Stage 2. To experiment with this mode, try selecting
two noticeably different Shaper Curves (like Half Wave Rectifier and Fractal) and modulating the
Blend control so that Roar’s sound shifts continuously from one to the other.
623
Multi Band splits the frequency spectrum into three bands (Low, Mid, and High) that can each be
processed independently. Two Crossover Filters (Low and High) let you define the crossover
frequency between the three bands. This mode serves a variety of applications, including drum
processing and adding saturation to entire mixes.
Mid Side processes the input signal’s mono and stereo signals independently. This mode is useful for
enhancing a signal’s stereo image without compromising the sound of the signal at the center of the
stereo field.
The Feedback routing mode processes the input signal and its feedback independently, which can
create unusual tones or transform Roar into a distinctive delay. Try modulating Roar’s Shaper Amount
with an envelope to produce saturation that has a shuffled delay effect, for example, or subtly
offsetting Shaper Bias to create delays that degrade over time.
In the Delay mode, the second stage processes the delayed signal from the first stage. The delayed
signal is sent to the second stage without being scaled by the feedback gain, which produces single
(distorted) repetitions or slapbacks. The output of the second stage is fed back into itself and scaled
with the feedback gain, resulting in multiple repetitions and long signal tails.
28.33.2 Gain Stage Section
Roar’s Gain Stage Section.
Each routing mode has its own set of gain stages, which can be turned on or off independently using
the Stage toggles in the Gain Stage tabs.
Gain Stage tabs all have the same three controls: Shaper Amount, Shaper Bias, and Filter Frequency.
Shaper and Filter Types can be selected from their corresponding drop-down menus at the bottom of
each Gain Stage tab.
The Shaper Amount control sets the amount of saturation applied to the input signal. You can also click
and drag the shaper waveform in the Shaper Visualization display to modify this parameter. Distortion
occurs when the input signal reaches non-linear portions of the visualized curve.
The Shaper Bias control offsets the signal and creates asymmetrical distortion. At higher settings, it can
emulate the sound of a broken circuit. At more extreme settings, it will cause the signal to go
completely quiet.
624
The Shaper Type drop-down menu under the Shaper Visualization display has twelve curves to
choose from:
Soft Sine uses a sinusoidal curve to add smooth, warm saturation to the input signal. This shaper curve
tends to produce pleasant, analog-style distortion even when pushed to extreme levels.
Digital Clip applies a hard clipping curve to the input signal. It produces harsh, higher-order
harmonics when the input signal reaches the curve’s extremities.
Bit Crusher produces the characteristic distortion that occurs when quantized amplitudes are applied
to an input signal, similar to Live’s Redux device. Increasing the Shaper Amount reduces the number of
bits used for quantization and intensifies the effects of the bit crusher’s built-in compander. This curve
works well with bias modulation and produces very obvious changes in quieter signals.
Diode Clipper this type is a virtual analog clipping circuit emulation. It sounds smooth and warm like
the Soft Sine curve, but with attenuated high-end frequencies.
Tube Preamp models the soft, analog saturation of a tube preamp. It preserves a signal’s transients
and dynamics even when the Shaper Amount is set to higher levels.
Half Wave Rectifier and Full Wave Rectifier produce distinctive, waveshaper-style effects. Half Wave
Rectifier applies completely asymmetrical distortion to the input signal, which works well for adding
crunch to drum sounds. Full Wave Rectifier shifts the signal up by an octave, which works well for
adding harmonic depth to certain synth sounds.
Polynomial shifts between a sinusoidal curve and more complex waveforms. This shaper curve lends
itself well to modulation and to producing metallic sounds.
Fractal introduces a large of amount of high-end harmonics to the input signal.
Tri Fold this type is a triangular wavefolder. Like Fractal, it adds a large amount of high-end harmonics
to the input but achieves even harsher, more distorted results.
Noise Injection applies stereo noise followed by smooth distortion to the input signal. This curve works
well for producing smooth saturation that also has some dirt and grit.
Shards continuously changes the slope of its stereo curve segments to rhythmically break apart the
input signal.
Shapers can also be turned on or off via the toggle at the bottom of the Shaper Visualization display.
The Shaper Level control can be used to compensate for changes in output level produced as the
shaper curve is modified.
Filter Frequency adjusts the filter’s cutoff frequency. If the Pre toggle has been activated, the filter is
applied before the Shaper stage. When the Filter Frequency is changed with Pre activated, the filter
doesn’t affect the harmonics produced by the shaper.
There are nine filter types to choose from: LP (low-pass), BP (band-pass), HP (high-pass), Notch, Peak,
Morph, Comb, Resampling, and Dispersion.
625
The LP filter attenuates frequencies above the cutoff, BP attenuates lower and higher frequencies
outside of a specific range, while HP attenuates frequencies below the cutoff.
Notch attenuates a narrow frequency range while leaving the surrounding frequencies largely
unaffected.
The Morph filter allows continuous morphing between low-pass and high-pass filtering, with band-
pass behavior in between.
Comb creates a series of notches across the frequency spectrum. When its cutoff is modulated, this
filter type can produce flanger-like effects.
The Resampling filter produces sample-rate reduction artifacts, similar to Live’s Redux device.
Dispersion shifts different frequencies in time by different amounts, without changing their level. This
slight misalignment of frequencies can create metallic, spring-like tones, especially when modulated.
Apart from the Resampling filter, each filter has a dedicated Resonance control. The Peak filter has a
Filter Peak Gain control for boosting or attenuating a specific frequency range. The Morph filter has a
Morph control for setting its filter shape.
28.33.3 Modulation Section
To display Roar’s modulation parameters, click on the toggle in the Modulation panel. This will bring
up the Mod Sources and Matrix tabs.
Roar’s Modulation Toggle.
Roar’s Modulation Section.
626
The Mod Sources tab has four modulation sources to choose from: LFO 1, LFO 2, Env (Envelope), and
Noise. Each of the modulation sources comes with a display that visualizes the signal, as well as a set
of distinct parameters.
You can choose one of five waveforms for each LFO: sine, triangle, square, up, or down.
The LFO rate mode can be set to Free, Synced, Triplet, Dotted, or Sixteenth using the Mode chooser.
The LFO rate is set via the Rate slider in Hertz (in the Free mode) or tempo-synced beat divisions (in
the other modes). The Morph control’s value can be set manually or modulated to further sculpt the
LFO shape. The Smooth control allows you to add smoothing to the LFO signal, which can be helpful
in preventing harsh changes while using modulation.
The Env tab’s envelope follower generates a modulation signal based on Roar’s input signal. You can
use the parameters in this tab to adjust the envelope follower’s response to the input signal.
The Attack and Release controls shape how quickly the envelope responds to the input signal. You can
also use the Envelope Hold toggle to control how the envelope moves from the attack to release
phase: when on, the envelope completes the entire attack phase before starting the release phase.
The Threshold and Gain controls set the envelope’s sensitivity and strength, while Frequency and
Width allow you to set a specific frequency range for the signal fed into the envelope follower.
To play back the input signal only, activate the Envelope Input Listen toggle.
The envelope follower is particularly useful as a modulation source in Roar’s Modulation Matrix. Try
setting it to follow a snare sound in a drum loop, for example, and have it modulate Roar’s Dry/Wet
balance or Shaper Amount each time the snare hits.
The Noise modulation source includes four different noise types: Simplex, Wander, S & H, and Brown.
Noise curves can be set in Hertz or tempo-synced and can be smoothed like Roar’s LFO curves.
Simplex and Wander both generate smoothed random signals, with different random value
interpolation algorithms used to produce different signal dynamics. Simplex uses interrate modulation,
which produces a more irregular value interval than Wander. These types of noise are useful for
introducing small, random, organic-style changes in Roar’s output signal, especially when set to low
rates.
S & H (Sample and Hold) generates a random constant value that changes to a new random value at
an interval determined by the Noise Rate. This is useful for creating stepped random modulation
patterns in Roar’s output signal.
Brown produces low-pass filtered white noise, which is useful for producing a constant noise floor or
for adding crackles and hissing to Roar’s output signal.
The Matrix tab lets you assign modulation sources to modulation targets within the device. Clicking a
parameter while the Matrix tab is open will set it as a modulation target. Modulation sources are
listed horizontally and modulation targets are listed vertically. Click and drag a cell up or down to
apply modulation between parameters.
627
The Global Modulation Amount slider can be dragged up or down to increase or decrease the
modulation being applied globally. Clicking the X button will erase all modulation applied by the
Modulation Matrix.
The Modulation Matrix can also be expanded using the toggle in the device header. When
expanded, the device’s gain stages are all visible at once, as are all of the modulation sources and
targets in the Modulation Matrix.
Roar’s Expanded Matrix.
Apart from the visualization displays, modulation signals are also indicated via LEDs in the
Modulation column. Each LED uses a color that corresponds to a modulation source. This allows you
to quickly determine whether a modulation source is active and gives you an idea of how the source is
set up without needing to dive into the Modulation Matrix.
28.33.4 Feedback Section
Roar’s Feedback Section.
The Feedback section is one of Roar’s most distinctive features. Feeding Roar’s signal back into itself
can add a new layer of ringing, otherworldly tones and textures to your sound.
628